my name is Don Bowie I'm a Canadian but
I live in Bishop California and I'm a
professional climber and have been so
for about seven years
yeah I've been Annapurna now this is my
third time and so the South Face in the
sanctuary is quite a bit different than
the North Face just in the way it looks
the South paces a lot steeper a lot more
sustained and it doesn't have near the
serac broken ice ball and they hang saw
rocks as as much as here on the north
base so when you start to piece the
north together really it's not all that
dangerous as I thought it would be you
can really weave away through a lot of
the Avalanche zones unless something
catastrophic happens but the sheer
beauty the the views that the vistas the
fact that you're in this huge circle of
mountains that almost surround you it's
it's really glorious to be here but it
is it is a little safer believe it or
not and then was in my mind
well I don't know if Carlos remembers
but the first time we met was in 2009 in
Gasherbrum one base camp and we were on
a small team attempting - room 3 and on
the North Face I really I of course he's
famous guy and I've heard collected
about him and so I was very curious to
meet him and we the RIT but the very
first experience I had in climbing near
him and beside him was the other day
when we made our sent to camp 3 and then
by the time I got to the top and had set
my tent up there all of a sudden Carlos
comes up over and he had passed
everybody on the way out with Calvin
this guy's strong made it - made it to
camp free passed everybody
on the way I was really impressed with
how strong he was and so I dude the only
problem is is that I think you know I
know how his age and I know he's been
climbing I know a little bit about him
my sponsors expect me to sign like a 30
year contract now for my client if it
makes me a little bit afraid you know I
was hoping to retire in ten years or
something and now the bar has been
raised and so you know I think maybe it
might be impressive to other people but
it's a little intimidating to us as
professional athletes I might have to be
at this for a while now so it's not
exactly a comfortable feeling just in
the in the brief conversations we have
his experience and
and his respect for the mountains is is
something that I I think we appreciate
in the conversations that we've had and
it seems that we have a similar approach
a very conservative very patient you
wait for the right time you don't care
what anybody else is doing on the
mountain and then when the right time
comes the right weather and you feel
good and you're prepared then you go for
it and that kind of a relaxed
perspective that the laid-back tranquil
perspective and viewpoint towards the
mountains I think is really important if
you want to get to the summit and come
back home but also do enjoy yourself not
be so influenced by everybody else is
around you make your own decisions based
on your own experiences and he seems
right very confident in that so I think
probably we'll we'll go to the summit on
the same gain and I really look forward
to that